src/cfwrapper/README.md, before:

# cfwrapper source files

- `cfwrapper/cfwrapper.py`: this is the precious heart of gtk-fortran. Developers use it to automatically parse the GTK libraries header files. It generates:
  - `../*-auto.f90`: these files contains the Fortran interfaces to the C functions of the various GTK libraries.
  - `../gtk-fortran-index.csv`: list of all the interfaces generated in the `*-auto.f90` files, with the name of the library, the name of the function, its status (deprecated or not), the names of the `.f90` file and the `.h` file, the C prototype of the function and the Fortran definition.
  - `cfwrapper/gtk-fortran-hash.pkl`: the SHA1 hash of all `*-auto.f90` files. Useful for the development of `cfwrapper.py` to detect modifications in the resulting `.f90` files.
  - `cfwrapper/cfwrapper-errors.csv`: for the developers, a list of problems encountered by the `cfwrapper.py` script when parsing the `.h` files. Not pushed in GitHub.
  - `../../VERSIONS`: a CSV file with the gtk-fortran, GTK, GLib and distribution versions used to generate the library. It is used by the build system.
- Other `*.py` files: the modules used by `cfwrapper.py`.

Commit message:

Adds a run_tests.py for testing some functions of the cfwrapper

src/cfwrapper/README.md, after:

# cfwrapper source files

- `cfwrapper/cfwrapper.py`: this is the precious heart of gtk-fortran. Developers use it to automatically parse the GTK libraries header files. It generates:
  - `../*-auto.f90`: these files contains the Fortran interfaces to the C functions of the various GTK libraries.
  - `../gtk-fortran-index.csv`: list of all the interfaces generated in the `*-auto.f90` files, with the name of the library, the name of the function, its status (deprecated or not), the names of the `.f90` file and the `.h` file, the C prototype of the function and the Fortran definition.
  - `cfwrapper/gtk-fortran-hash.pkl`: the SHA1 hash of all `*-auto.f90` files. Useful for the development of `cfwrapper.py` to detect modifications in the resulting `.f90` files.
  - `cfwrapper/cfwrapper-errors.csv`: for the developers, a list of problems encountered by the `cfwrapper.py` script when parsing the `.h` files. Not pushed in GitHub.
  - `../../VERSIONS`: a CSV file with the gtk-fortran, GTK, GLib and distribution versions used to generate the library. It is used by the build system.
- `cfwrapper/run_tests.py`: for testing some functions of the cfwrapper.
- Other `*.py` files: the modules used by `cfwrapper.py`.
