.TH "GTK-FORTRAN-MODSCAN" "1" "16 August 2012" "Function scanner for gtk-fortran" 
.SH NAME
gtk-@GTK@-fortran-modscan \- scan one or more Fortran sources for gtk+
functions.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gtk\-@GTK@\-fortran-modscan
.I [\-\-csv=CSVFILE] [\-\-enum=ENUMFILE] [\-\-out=OUTFILE] [\-\-[no]link] [INFILES]

.SH DESCRIPTION
gtk\-@GTK@\-fortran-modscan is a utility to find the gtk+ (and related
library) functions used in a Fortran program and generate appropriate
USE statements. Using the generated USE statements rather than the
entire module(s) can produce a manyfold improvement in compilation
times, and also any module files that use gtk+ will be many times
smaller. This version uses the function lists for GTK+-@GTK@ by
default.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-\-csv=CSVFILE
Specify a list of functions other than the default.
.IP \-\-enum=ENUMFILE
Specify a list of enumeration constants other than the default.
.IP \-\-out=OUTFILE
Specify the output file for the generated USE statements (default is
gtk-modules.txt)
.IP \-\-[no]link
Specify whether to scan symbolic links (default is yes). This is only
applicable when scanning all the files in a directory.

.SH INPUTS
The inputs may be either a list of Fortran source files or a single
directory. If no inputs are given then the current directory is
used. If a directory (including the current) is specified, then only
those files that have an ending
.B .f90, .f95, .f03
or
.B .f08
(case insensitive) will be scanned.

.SH AUTHORS

.PP
James Tappin (jtappin at gmail dot com). 
.PP

.SH LICENCE

.PP
gtk\-@GTK@\-fortran-modscan is free software and may be modified and
redistributed under the terms of the GNU General Public Licence Version
3.
