src/README.md, before:

# gtk-fortran source files

In the following filenames, the ? character is the GTK version.

## gtk-fortran core

- cfwrapper.py: this is the precious heart of gtk-fortran. Developers use it to automatically parse the GTK libraries header files. It generates:
  - *-auto.f90: these files contains the Fortran interfaces to the C functions of the various GTK libraries.
  - gtk-fortran-index.csv: list of all the interfaces generated in the *-auto.f90 files, with the name of the library, the name of the function, the names of the .f90 file and the .h file, the C prototype of the function and the Fortran definition.
  - gtk-fortran-hash.pkl: the SHA1 hash of all *-auto.f90 files. Useful for the development of cfwrapper.py to detect modifications in the resulting .f90 files.
  - cfwrapper-errors.csv: for the developers, a list of problems encountered by the cfwrapper.py script when parsing the .h files. Not pushed in github.
- gtk.f90: it contains the gtk module, which will be used by every GTK program. The g_signal_connect() and gtk_init() subroutines are defined here. The gtkenums-auto.f90 and gtk-auto.f90 files are automatically included.
- gtk-sup.f90: this module contains some supplementary material useful for writing GTK programs in Fortran.
- gtk-?-fortran.pc.in: templates used by CMake to generate the gtk-fortran pkg-config files.
- extract_events.pl: extracts the structure definitions for GDK events from the GDK header files.
  - gdkevents-auto?.f90: Fortran GDK events structures generated by extract_events.pl.
- extract_enums.pl: find the enumerator constants in a fortran source file and write them out to a simple list.
  - gtk-enumerators.lis: list generated by extract_enums.pl.


## High Level interface

- gtk_hl.f90: the gtk_hl main Fortran module, which includes the other gtk-hl-\* modules:
  - gtk-\*hl-\*.f90
- \*-hl-tmpl.f90: templates for the gtk-\*hl-\*.f90 files. In the high-level modules, differences between the GTK2.x and GTK3.x versions of the code are maintained in those files.
- mk_gtk_hl.pl: that script converts the templates \*-hl-tmpl.f90 to either GTK 2 or GTK 3 version gtk-\*hl-\*.f90 .
- gdk-pixbuf-hl.f90: some routines to facilitate the use of GDK pixbufs from Fortran.


## Various scripts

- show_versions.sh: shows the versions of the main tools and libraries used in gtk-fortran.
- screenshots.sh: automatically launches each gtk-fortran example and take a PNG screenshot using the scrot command. A suffix is added to the name of the example.
- build.sh: a short script to build gtk-fortran using CMake from the src/ directory.
- test.sh: a script to build gtk-fortran without CMake, in a build/byscript directory.
- test.bat: a deprecated script to build gtk-fortran under Windows.
- usemodules.pl: scan a Fortran source file or files for GTK (etc.) routines. This is a somewhat 'tighter' replacement for usemodules.py.
  - gtk-modules.txt: the USE statements to copy/paste in your programs, generated by usemodules.pl.
  - gtk-fortran-modscan.man: man page of the gtk-?-fortran-modscan command (usemodules.pl).
- usemodules.py: it helps you generating the USE statements for your gtk-fortran programs. It also displays all the GTK functions used in a directory. It generates:
  - usemodules.txt: the USE statements to copy/paste in your programs, generated by usemodules.py.

Commit message:

Updated gtk-fortran-index.csv and README with deprecated functions

src/README.md, after:

# gtk-fortran source files

In the following filenames, the ? character is the GTK version.

## gtk-fortran core

- cfwrapper.py: this is the precious heart of gtk-fortran. Developers use it to automatically parse the GTK libraries header files. It generates:
  - *-auto.f90: these files contains the Fortran interfaces to the C functions of the various GTK libraries.
  - gtk-fortran-index.csv: list of all the interfaces generated in the *-auto.f90 files, with the name of the library, the name of the function, its status (deprecated or not), the names of the .f90 file and the .h file, the C prototype of the function and the Fortran definition.
  - gtk-fortran-hash.pkl: the SHA1 hash of all *-auto.f90 files. Useful for the development of cfwrapper.py to detect modifications in the resulting .f90 files.
  - cfwrapper-errors.csv: for the developers, a list of problems encountered by the cfwrapper.py script when parsing the .h files. Not pushed in github.
- gtk.f90: it contains the gtk module, which will be used by every GTK program. The g_signal_connect() and gtk_init() subroutines are defined here. The gtkenums-auto.f90 and gtk-auto.f90 files are automatically included.
- gtk-sup.f90: this module contains some supplementary material useful for writing GTK programs in Fortran.
- gtk-?-fortran.pc.in: templates used by CMake to generate the gtk-fortran pkg-config files.
- extract_events.pl: extracts the structure definitions for GDK events from the GDK header files.
  - gdkevents-auto?.f90: Fortran GDK events structures generated by extract_events.pl.
- extract_enums.pl: find the enumerator constants in a fortran source file and write them out to a simple list.
  - gtk-enumerators.lis: list generated by extract_enums.pl.


## High Level interface

- gtk_hl.f90: the gtk_hl main Fortran module, which includes the other gtk-hl-\* modules:
  - gtk-\*hl-\*.f90
- \*-hl-tmpl.f90: templates for the gtk-\*hl-\*.f90 files. In the high-level modules, differences between the GTK2.x and GTK3.x versions of the code are maintained in those files.
- mk_gtk_hl.pl: that script converts the templates \*-hl-tmpl.f90 to either GTK 2 or GTK 3 version gtk-\*hl-\*.f90 .
- gdk-pixbuf-hl.f90: some routines to facilitate the use of GDK pixbufs from Fortran.


## Various scripts

- show_versions.sh: shows the versions of the main tools and libraries used in gtk-fortran.
- screenshots.sh: automatically launches each gtk-fortran example and take a PNG screenshot using the scrot command. A suffix is added to the name of the example.
- build.sh: a short script to build gtk-fortran using CMake from the src/ directory.
- test.sh: a script to build gtk-fortran without CMake, in a build/byscript directory.
- test.bat: a deprecated script to build gtk-fortran under Windows.
- usemodules.pl: scan a Fortran source file or files for GTK (etc.) routines. This is a somewhat 'tighter' replacement for usemodules.py.
  - gtk-modules.txt: the USE statements to copy/paste in your programs, generated by usemodules.pl.
  - gtk-fortran-modscan.man: man page of the gtk-?-fortran-modscan command (usemodules.pl).
- usemodules.py: this program scan all the Fortran files in the given directory and subdirectories to generate USE statements you can paste in your gtk-fortran programs. It also print warnings if you use deprecated GTK functions, and finally displays all the GTK functions used in a directory. It generates:
  - usemodules.txt: the USE statements to copy/paste in your programs, generated by usemodules.py.
